It would also be nice if we could style the link
if it is active.
The nice thing is that bootstrap in theory gives us this class we can attach to the list item called
active
and if we do attach it, well this is marked as active.
The problem we have though is well we have this router link active class added to our anchor tag
and not to the parent element here.
So these are two problems at once,
the name is wrong,
it's router link active instead of just active and it's on the wrong element,
well how can we solve that? We can achieve this by removing our list items here and only using router link
and then overriding
what this router link shall be like or shall be. So we can add the tag property to route link and
set this to li to create a list item instead of an anchor tag, and then we simply nest the anchor tag
inside of it with no attributes at all, just an empty anchor tag like this
and what this will do is router link will now set up the link on the list item,
it may have an element inside of it, that's no problem, router link may take any content you want to set
up as a link.
But now the real link is the list item element we can set up here and now we can override
the class we want to use by setting the active class attribute here as well
and I can set this to active.
This will make sure that now instead of router link active, it will attach the active class to the active
link,
so let me add this to the second router link here too.
And with that, we can already see that it works
though we also see an issue, it correctly selects user but home stays selected at all times.
Now this happens because the default behavior for the active class or for determining whether a link
is active or not is that it looks at where this link leads to,
so just slash and then it looks at your URL, and by default it marks a link as active whenever your
URL starts with the link or with the to path here.
Now clearly, all our URLs start with slash after the domain,
all our paths start with slash.
Now that's a great behavior if you have nested routes like a user and an ID and you always want to
keep the user select in your nav bar,
it's not the desired behavior though
in a case like this when we don't want to mark the root route as active all the time. So we can add
another configuration attribute here which is called exact and by adding it like this,
we override the default so
now this has to be an exact match. So it doesn't suffice that our path starts with the path here in the
to link or in this path here,
instead it has to be the full path which matches this,
so now you see it only matches if we are on home and not if we are on user.
So with that, we're styling the active link on our outer items, so on the list item here instead of the link and we also
override the active class and make sure it only gets attached when we want to attach it.